---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Heading

The `HeadingComponent` is a flexible and reusable component designed to display a heading in your Next.js application. It allows you to specify the heading level (e.g., `h1`, `h2`, etc.) and customize the heading text. The component can be dynamically shown or hidden based on the `remove` prop.

## Usage

### Props

-   **text:** A string that represents the text to be displayed inside the heading.
-   **level:** A number representing the heading level (`1` to `6`). This determines whether the heading is rendered as an `h1`, `h2`, etc.
-   **remove:** A boolean that determines whether the heading should be rendered or not. If `true`, the heading will not be displayed.

### Component Code

```js title="src/components/availableComponents/HeadingComponent.js"
const HeadingComponent = ({ text, level, remove }) => {
  const Tag = `h${level}`;
  return remove ? null : <Tag className="heading">{text}</Tag>;
};

export default HeadingComponent;`` 
```
### Component Explanation

-   **Dynamic Heading Level:**
    
    -   The `level` prop determines the heading level by dynamically setting the HTML tag (`h1`, `h2`, etc.). The component uses template literals to create the appropriate tag based on the `level` prop.
-   **Visibility Control:**
    
    -   The heading's visibility is controlled by the `remove` prop. If `remove` is `true`, the component returns `null`, and the heading is not rendered.
-   **Styling:**
    
    -   The heading is styled using a CSS class named `heading`. You can define this class in your CSS to apply custom styles to all headings generated by this component.

## Customization

You can easily customize the `HeadingComponent` by:

-   Changing the `text` and `level` props to render different headings.
-   Modifying the `heading` CSS class to apply custom styles open `./src/app/globals.css`.

    ```css title="src/app/globals.css"
    .heading {
        @apply font-semibold;
    }
    h1 {
        @apply text-5xl;
    }
    h2 {
        @apply text-4xl;
    }
    h3 {
        @apply text-3xl;
    }
    h4 {
        @apply text-2xl;
    }
    h5 {
        @apply text-xl;
    }
    h6 {
        @apply text-lg;
    }
    ```
-   Conditionally rendering the component based on the `remove` prop to control its visibility dynamically.